[material-ui][docs] Add first batch of v6 migration (#42242)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/material/migration/migration-v5/migration-v5.md

Author: Me too. I am not sure why the previous previous pages use this pattern 🤔

Reviewer: Yeah I was confused as well when I created the files 😅: https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/41561#issue-2195624035. But I just followed the convention.

I think `migrating-to-vX` is a better convention, assuming we're always migrating from vN to vN+1.

Author: Okay, I am changing it!

## Why you should migrate

Material UI v6 includes many bug fixes and improvements over v5.

The biggest highlight in v6 is the opt-in support for Pigment CSS which enable styles extraction that get rid of style recalculation and reduce bundle size.

Apart from the support for Pigment CSS, the v6 release provides a stable API for adopting CSS variables which open more customization possibilities and offers a more enjoyable developer experience.

Additionally, the v6 release does not include major breaking changes, apart from the browser support & node.js version bump. Instead, they are deprecated to bring more consistent developer experience which can be migrated using our codemods.

Last but not least, the v6 release includes new features such as container queries, theme utility for styling across color schemes, and ability to adopt Pigment CSS, a zero-runtime styling engine.

## Supported browsers and Node versions

The targets of the default bundle have changed in v6.

The exact versions will be pinned on release from the browserslist query `"> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead, safari >= 15.4, iOS >= 15.4"`.

<!-- #stable-snapshot -->

> - Node 18 (up from 12)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Node.js 18 (up from 12)
```

- Chrome 109 (up from 90)
- Edge 121 (up from 91)
- Firefox 115 (up from 78)
- Safari 15.4 in both macOS and iOS (up from 14 in macOS and 12.5 in iOS)
- and more (see [.browserslistrc (`stable` entry)](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/v6.0.0/.browserslistrc#L11))

### Removed support for IE 11

Support for IE 11 is completely removed, by dropping the legacy bundle and all IE 11 related code.
This allows us to decrease bundle size and keep the scope manageable.
If you need to support IE 11, you can use Material UI v5's [legacy bundle](https://v5.mui.com/material-ui/guides/minimizing-bundle-size/#legacy-bundle), but it won't get updates or bug fixes.

## Update React & TypeScript version

### Update React

The minimum supported version of React is v17.0.0 (the same as v5).

### Update TypeScript

The minimum supported version of TypeScript has been increased from v3.5 to 4.1.

:::info

> We try to align with types released by [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) (that is packages published on npm under the `@types` namespace).

Author: Copied from the previous migration guide. I guess it's implied that the versions we are using might not be the latest ones along the way. Meaning, that we do update once each major release.

> We will not change the minimum supported version in a minor version of Material UI.

Author: I think there are cases when React, or libraries that we are depending on updates their types in a minor release and break us.

> However, we generally recommend not to use a TypeScript version older than the lowest supported version of DefinitelyTyped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, we recommend not using a TypeScript version older than the lowest supported version by DefinitelyTyped.
```

```diff
- import { createTheme } from '@mui/material/styles';
+ import { extendTheme } from '@mui/material/styles';

- const theme = createTheme({...});
+ const theme = extendTheme({...});
```

<!-- Link to CSS theme variables page -->

To learn more about using CSS theme variables, check out the CSS theme variables page.

### Container queries

CSS Container Quries lets you apply styles based on the size of the container, rather than the viewport.

The `theme` object now includes a field `containerQueries` which can be used to define container queries similar to `theme.breakpoints`.

```js
import { styled } from '@mui/material/styles';

const MyComponent = styled('div')(({ theme }) => ({
  [theme.containerQueries.up('sm')]: {
    backgroundColor: 'red',
  },
}));
```

or using the `sx` prop:

```js
<Card sx={{
  display: 'flex',
  '@300px': {
    flexDirection: 'column',
  }
}}>
```

<!-- TODO: add link to the docs -->

To learn more about using container queries, check out the [Container Queries documentation](/system/container-queries/).

## Deprecations

### `components` and `componentsProps`

<!-- TODO: add info and codemod instruction -->

### Component style overrides

> <!-- TODO: add info and codemod instruction -->

Author: @DiegoAndai Need your help on these sections.

Using `next` ensures your project always uses the latest v6 alpha release.
Alternatively, you can also target and fix it to a specific version, for example, `6.0.0-alpha.0`.

## Introduction

The biggest change in v6 is the support for Pigment CSS integration, our zero-runtime CSS-in-JS solution.

<!-- :::info
Need to refer back to an older version of the docs? Check out [the v5 documentation here](https://v5.mui.com/).
::: -->

## Why you should migrate

Material UI v6 includes many bug fixes and improvements over v5.

Apart from the support for Pigment CSS, the v6 release provides a stable API for adopting CSS variables which open more customization possibilities and offers a more enjoyable developer experience.

> Additionally, the v6 release does not include any breaking changes. Some APIs are deprecated to bring more consistent developer experience which are easily migrated using our codemod.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, the v6 release does not include any breaking changes, apart from the browser support & node.js version bump. Some APIs are deprecated to bring more consistent developer experience which are easily migrated using our codemod.
```

Maybe to make sure we are not setting wrong expectations.

## Supported browsers and Node versions

The targets of the default bundle have changed in v6.

The exact versions will be pinned on release from the browserslist query `"> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead, not IE 11, maintained node versions"`.

<!-- #stable-snapshot -->

<!-- Add  -->

## Update React & TypeScript version

<!-- Add minimum React & TypeScript version -->

## New features and improvements

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Apply styles utility
```

  [theme.containerQueries.up('sm')]: {
    backgroundColor: 'red',
  },
}));
```

or using the `sx` prop:

```js
<Card sx={{
  display: 'flex',
  '@300px': {
    flexDirection: 'column',
  }
}}>
```

<!-- TODO: add link to the docs -->

To learn more about using container queries, check out the [Container Queries documentation](/system/container-queries/).

## Stabilized APIs

### CssVarsProvider and extendTheme

CSS theme variables become a recommended way to customize the theme. The `CssVarsProvider` and `extendTheme` APIs are now stable.

```diff
- import { createTheme, ThemeProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';
+ import { extendTheme, CssVarsProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';

- const theme = createTheme({...});
+ const theme = extendTheme({...});

- <ThemeProvider theme={theme}>
+ <CssVarsProvider theme={theme}>
```

<!-- Link to CSS theme variables page -->

To learn more about using CSS theme variables, check out the CSS theme variables page.

### Grid

The Grid v2 is now becoming the default Grid component. Check out the [migration guide](/material-ui/migration/migration-grid-v2/) to see the differences and improvements.

## Deprecations

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### ListItemSecondaryAction

```

### `components` and `componentsProps`

<!-- TODO: add info and codemod instruction -->

### Component style overrides

<!-- TODO: add info and codemod instruction -->

### System props

System props are deprecated in `Box`, `Typography`, `Link`, `Grid`, and `Stack` components. Move all system props into the `sx` prop instead. Example:

```diff
- <Button mr={2}>...</Button>
+ <Button sx={{ mr: 2 }}>...</Button>
```

<!-- TODO: add codemod instruction -->

> ## Pigment CSS integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Pigment CSS integration (optional)
```

To make sure people know that they don't need to do this right away.

Reviewer 3: Additional thing, we decided to keep in emotion the current overrides presendence (base styles vs variants), but change it in Pigment CSS. We need to add section on this and maybe troubleshooting guide if the styles differ.

Note that the items' position doesn't change.
We recommend adopting this new behavior and **not trying to replicate the old one**, as this is a more predictable and modern approach.
:::

## Stabilized APIs

### CssVarsProvider and extendTheme

The `CssVarsProvider` and `extendTheme` APIs are now stable. If you are using them in v5, you can now use them without the prefix.

```diff
- import { experimental_extendTheme as extendTheme, Experimental_CssVarsProvider as CssVarsProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';
+ import { extendTheme, CssVarsProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';
```

> To learn more about using CSS theme variables, check out the [CSS theme variables page](/material-ui/customization/css-theme-variables/overview/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out the [CSS theme variables page](/material-ui/customization/css-theme-variables/overview/) to learn more about it.
```

Just so we don't repeat "CSS theme variables"

### Specific mode styles

> The `theme.applyStyles` is a new utility for creating style for a specific mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `theme.applyStyles` utility allows adding styles for a specific color mode.
```

It's designed to replace the use of `theme.palette.mode` when applying light or dark styles.

```diff
 const MyComponent = styled('button')(({ theme }) => ({
   padding: '0.5rem 1rem',
   border: '1px solid,
-  borderColor: theme.palette.mode === 'dark' ? '#fff' : '#000',
+  borderColor: '#000',
+  ...theme.applyStyles('dark', {
+    borderColor: '#fff',
+  })
 }))
```

Use these codemods to migrate your project to `theme.applyStyles`:

```bash
npx @mui/codemod@next v6.0.0/styled <path/to/folder-or-file>
npx @mui/codemod@next v6.0.0/sx-prop <path/to/folder-or-file>
npx @mui/codemod@next v6.0.0/theme-v6 <path/to/theme-file>
```

> Run `v6.0.0/theme-v6` against the file that contains the custom `styleOverrides`. Ignore this codemod if you don't have a custom theme.

## Deprecations

### Components and classes

For more details on each component, check out the [deprecations page](/material-ui/migration/migrating-from-deprecated-apis/).

### System props

> System props are deprecated in `Box`, `Typography`, `Link`, `Grid`, and `Stack` components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System props, such as `mt={*}`, `color={*}`, and others,  are deprecated in the Box, Typography, Link, Grid, and Stack components.
```

Just to give quick examples here. It'd be even better if we linked to a place where I could see all previously existing system props. Also removing the backticks from the components.

Author: 👍 much better.

Move all system props into the `sx` prop by using the codemod below:

```bash
npx @mui/codemod@next v6.0.0/system-props <path/to/folder>
```

Or do it manually like the example below:

```diff
- <Button mr={2}>...</Button>
+ <Button sx={{ mr: 2 }}>...</Button>
```

### Theme component variants

> Theme component variants has been merged with the theme style overrides by targeting the `root` slot of the component:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom component variants defined in the theme are now merged with the theme style overrides, defined within the `root` slot of the component:
```

Changing the tense here. Also, saying "custom component variants defined in theme" sounds clearer than "theme component variants", which I had to stop for a second to understand what it was.

```diff
 createTheme({
   components: {
     MuiButton: {
-      variants: [ ... ],
+      styleOverrides: {
+        root: {
+          variants: [ ... ]
+        }
+      }
     }
   }
 })
```

> This reduces the API surface and let you define variants in other slots of the component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This reduces the API surface and lets you define variants in other slots of the component.
```
